Wiki:

The Wiki part of the Github website should be used to keep track of everything developed for the
Northern Realms Project.  Every overworld area, dungeon, monster, item, art asset, function, and
gameplay mechanic should be detailed.  This will allow easy understanding of all elements of the
project by everyone, contributor or observor.

Party:

The party, or group of controllable characters should start with only one character.  Others can be added
and removed from the party as the story progresses.  Any character other than the main character
should be able to be dismissed at an inn, and any dismissed character should be able to rejoin your
party at said inn.  Created characters that were removed at the start of the game should be able to rejoin
the party from an inn.  Story-wise they can be passed off as old friends.  These mechanics will make
players feel more attached to the main character, and will allow better story-telling in other characters.
It also will allow for players to change their party based on the situation at hand.

Beginning Gameplay:

The player should start off with a solitary character in an isolated area with only one way to get to the
more expansive area that will make up the majority of the game.  Before taking this way, however, the
player will have to complete multiple quests.  These quests should be in separate dungeons and should
be accomplish-able in any order.  This would be a suitable introduction to the open-world concept that
is entirely foreign to Legend of Grimrock.

Game World:

The game world needs to large enough to be varied in terrain and culture, but it should be small
enough to not be overwhelming from a creation standpoint.  The Isle of Nex could be used for the entire game, 
but I think that it would feel a little cramped from a developer standpoint.  Looking at our map
(http://i47.tinypic.com/spkswy.jpg) I think that the Kingdom of Tharaen would be the better option. 
From the pass between the Red Hills and the Thraelin Mountains in the west to the Serpentine River in
the East, we would have varied terrain with large enough space as to have 20+ dungeons without
feeling cramped.  https://f.cloud.github.com/assets/3145708/35308/206b4e30-51cf-11e2-8fb5-97b0bdaa969e.jpg
is a better way to show you the area.  By looking at that image you will see that I
propose that the players start in the blue box area, go over (or under or through) the mountains to get to
the mainland on the other side.  The mainland has a huge variety of terrain and is wide and open, and
by having the starting area be that little area east of the serpentine river, we can have the Isle of Nex be
an end-game area.  Also to be noted: we don't need to cover every square foot of the map; there could
be gaps between levels of the overworld.
