Pferguso has quite a few gameplay mechanics/scriptings
He has offered to release the sources for these upon request.
Out of respect for his creative work that he plans to release in a mod of his own, I ask that we only request to use what we will need in the mod. -Neikun

======================

The Friend Note - This is a note that just says "Friend" on it, but the party member can read it aloud in front of the door, where the nearby sign reads "Speak Friend, and Enter." I wanted to get the Door form Lord of the Rings into my dungeon but I never got around to it. Anyhow, they stand on the correct plate, and read the note, the door opens, and the screen shakes.

The Musical Simon Says Puzzle Room - This is a puzzle room consisting of 5 pressure plates, each plays a horn sound. When the player pulls a lever, the tones will play a pattern, which the party must repeat by stepping on the platforms in the correct order. If they get a note wrong, the walls open, and spiders come out, which must be defeated, before starting over. Each pattern gets progressively harder, and you can open the door, or award a weapon when it is beaten. I have an early prototype working with the sounds, but I was going to add statues which blow fire as the notes were played, to add atmosphere. This puzzle is reminiscent of the scene from Goonies, where the kids had to play the notes on the piano to get the stone bridge to lower. Includes sounds. This script has much potential, including allowing the player to record their own tones, and play them back, although I have not added that functionality yet. (I was still new to lua, so I didn't yet know how to add to or remove from arrays yet)

The Necromancer - This is my Goromorg end game boss, that while you are fighting him, he will teleport himself behind you if you get him NW or NE in front of you. Also, he can disappear and reappear as an ogre during battle, while keeping track of his health. He also has voice-over taunts, so he laughs at you and taunts you as you fight.

The Crystal Guardian - This is a Warden with custom textures, which are essentially the healing crystal, beneath the armor. I tried to add a second UV map so that the crystal texture on his body would have the same procedural texture that the healing crystal has in the Game, with the animated shimmer, but because there was no way to re-import a OBJ into the Model importer and retain all of his animation nodes, I couldn't pull that off, so I left the texture unlit, but the character has a glow, and healing crystal particles that follow him as you fight him. The script I have lets the party walk up to the healing crystal and heal, but when they go to open the door to exit the room, the healing crystal turns into the crystal guardian, which must be defeated. When the crystal guardian is destroyed, you can pick up mini healing crystals, which will heal the entire party on use, but are one-time use items. These mini crystals have a model, and icons.

Party Member Capture / Rescue system - This is a setup that has a prison area, with prison cells, and within those prison cells, there are pre-determined coordinates for the captured party members to appear when they are captured. So what happens is, during gameplay, if a party member dies, he/she is disabled, and vanishes from the party. You must then travel to the prison area, where you see a silouette figure sitting in a random cell. When you walk onto the figure, the party member re-joins the party, and a little dialog is exchanged, where the captured member thanks the party for coming back for them, etc. I built a (rough) model of a generic humanoid shape, which has no lighting, and is in a sitting position. It's kind of eerie seeing this figure sitting in the cells. Quite a bit of thought went into this script, and the cell doors close when a party member spawns in there.

The Skeleton Key - This is a key which can open multiple doors. It is basically a custom door with a lock on it, that calls a script that respawns the key back to the mouse once it is used. Simple, but allows for the same key to be used over and over again.

Portable Teleportation Device, with throwable receiver. - This device you probably saw from my ealier videos. I finished it, and it works beautifully. The models ended up being modified Grimrock assets, one of which was the ancient apparatus, and the other a simple sphere with some extra geometry added to it. They also include icons. The only problem it has, and I would still like to put this fix in, is it lets you place the receiver upon an altar, and teleport onto the altar. This is a simple fix though.

The Rolling Boulders - There is more scripting than anything that goes into getting these to do what you want, but it is a sphere that is spawned as a thrown object, with the proper rotation and speed, and then a bit of party script that kills the party on contact. There are videos of this in action. Another part of the script I have makes a rumble sound and shakes the screen the closer the boulders are to the party.

The Skybox - This one I'm not sure if it will work on all different hardware, but I can give you a single test dungeon with it in there so you can see how it performs. It is essentially a giant sphere that follows the party, switching between a decoration, and a thrown object as the party moves.

The Glaive of Krull / The Glaive Deflector Statues - These are in the videos. Includes models, Icon, script and sound.

Hank's Bow from Dungeons and Dragons. - There is a video. Includes model, icon, and script, and sound.