Isle of Nex
Small independant island. Very very old. Rumors are about some ancient civilization living here long time ago. Nowadays "Nexans" wants to believe
they are their ancestors.

Except cities and Temples, Island is quite wild place, full of wild animals, forests, rivers and some jungle. Altough there are accidents, 
animals usually do not attack local people and we could say everyone is living with each other in some kind of harmony.
Land is full of ancients temples, ruins and old magic.



Main city Ilore

City means huge temple in which is living several hundreds people. But because one temple is not enough, people started building around. "Nexans" are 
proud nation. Mainly humans. They do not like minotaurs too much, altough there are some exceptions, cause minotaurs are sometimes skilled Crafters.
Nexans are mainly religious order.

There are two main "gods" worshiped - Nex and his bride Ilore
While Nex (if ever existed) is responsible for more material things and staff, Ilore is mainly goddes of magic / healing. Ilore is not well known in other
countries. probably beacuse of island큦 name.
Nex is not a "good" god in it큦 way, like more neutral. He is focused more on disciple, proud, honest, truth. People imagine him like young warrior
with spear and shield. 
Ilore stays behind with magic, mainly offensive. She has also close relationship to some wild animals, like tigers.


Some of Nexans are born with divine abilites (magic). Such a childs are entering Temple services as apprentices, where learning different staff (
basicaly it큦 education where children are learning everything, including some basic magic, work with materials, writing, etc...)
In age of 15 every child could decide to become a Crafter, or a Priest. Never both.
Crafters are more likely soldiers, which use magic mainly for making weapons and they traing themself in soldier큦 way.
Priests are more like mages, which use magic in common way, mainly for healing or helping Crafters to create some magnificient artifact.

Deep under Temple are huge halls, where Crafters are smithing magic artifacts. Usually weapons, which will - according to legends -help them
defeat ancient evil. All these artifact are holy and worshiped. Never to be sold. Even though, sometimes some artifact slips away from the Island.
Such artifacts are highly valued by thiefs and traders.


High council - 
is made of 3 most experienced Crafters, 3 Clerics and one neutral, which decide in case score is 3:3. Council is voting about any serious staff which
is happening on the island.


