Needs breakdown:

Neikun: I don't know about all that, but I would like to note that we can create a sort of slope by having the player walk on the back end of stairs.

Random encounters, roaming monsters on game-board style world is not what I'd like to see.
Kuningas: How about routes? Not an open plain but a route through the said plain. I don't know how I'd put it, but the closest example I can give is how it is dealt with in the Pokemon  series of games.

 Kuningas: It'd still need a heck of a lot resources, though.

Neikun: I want to keep true to the grimrock feel of tile-based one to one perspective.

We simply cannot do the whole realms at once. But we can do a series of large mods that all fit in with the common lore. And if we decide for the plot to be handled in the same order chronologically as the release order, we could make reference to plot events out of previous mods that players who played the series from the start would understand the reference

Kuningas: Hub areas are another choice, but I'm not sure I like the idea of teleporters taking the players to places. It would be the easiest, maybe laziest way around.

Neikun: Kuningas, do you mean as in, the exit of a map takes you to the destination rather than you walk all the way there? I think it is imperitive that we do it that way as well.

Neikun: You can use teleporters that do not flash and are invisible to take you to new levels to serve as transition from place to place

Kuningas: It depends where the exit is. I think we should map towns, caves, dungeons, forests, places of adventure. Plains or hills or a long road are not very interesting in general.

Neikun: Well we would definitely use these sets, but not for travel. They'd be fullly fledged levels. Each level might have mulitple exits or just two.

Neikun: What I mean is, we would only map where interesting things can happen

 Neikun: Places of interest and what not

Neikun: Attacked by caravan looters not forgotten. I'm sure we could script a random chance that you get stopped in the middle of your journey or something.