Wiki Suggestions:
The Legends of the Northern Realms wiki can be used to describe areas on the map.
Cities and towns can have a page created for them describing daily life as well as climate, lore notable figures/ religious deities, and other key features.

Party suggestions:
This mod should allow party members to be added and removed.
The player should be allowed to choose how many characters they start with.
When the player meets a character that can join the party, the player should be able to choose which character to drop.
The character leaving the party should leave behind all their equipment. On the ground would likely be the easiest option.

If you remove a character that was added during gameplay, you should be able to relocate and re-enlist their services. They should be found either where they were originally found or in the main town.

If you remove a character that was created during character creation, you should be able to find and re-enlist them in the main town. This may be difficult when deciding a model to use for that character.

|_Note on models for playable characters found later in game. You would probably be alright to give them stationary models for the time being. When making animations is easier, defining them as monsters with full animations would be wonderful.

Note on NPCS: Next time Almost Human is taking requests for features, request AIState: friendly.

Original Lore theory
When The Goromorgs were normally living, Grimrock was a temple. They worshipped the cube. Eventually the Cube broke, it became violent and destructive. They then built the prison under the temple. They captured and dismantled the cube. 
Over time the cube was able to poison their minds and they built the dungeon levels above so that hapless adventurers who make it inside would go hungry and become weak to the power of the cube. Eventually lured to it and convinced to fix it and set it free.

Goromorg idea: 
If the Cube was the reason the Goromorgs were evil, would they return to a normal state now that the cube is destroyed?

I don't think anyone uses Icefall Bay as a port except maybe a crazy dangeryone icy race of pirates.

Rat people: 
Should mainly be located in the mid-west. Quenfar and Qegandoc.

Sunken strait:
Sunken earth that used to connect the Isle of Nex to the mainland. It is full of drowned cities.
Possible tilesets to use: Skugg's flooded dungeon

Organisation: having your own model folder, texture folder, animation folder... err resource folders essentially will be good. Then when the dungeon designers get to work, they will all have their own series of .luas

The base party characters should be famous for having escaped Grimrock. Their story would quickly become something of legend.
The base party should be npcs now. Because the base party is now roughly level 15-18 with any combination of items.
So this mod will have to feature a new party. 
It needs to check if custom characters have been created, and if not, use a default party of our own creation.

Final thoughts on Party/Ending of Grimrock, maybe not all of them made it out alive. Perhaps one died in the blast, one died shortly after from injuries and two lived.
In this way, we forgo any past conclusions and really make the story our own.

We should reference people's attitudes to the destruction of Mount Grimrock as well.
Due to the size of the mountain, there would be large pieces of rock and dungeon debris scattered every which way for a long way.


