 What are your thoughts on at least 1 outside level separating major towns/forests/dungeons etc.?  So there would be an outside level between Grotto.. and Uttermost and then his map would come up

Arkos: to simulate more travel

Neikun: I think that the outside levels should be levels. we could uses them as a hub. Lets say you level the town, enter a little wilderness. That wilderness would have a goal to it, but it could also have 2 or more exits that would be quick travels to other places.
So there would be secrets to unlock and possible a little story. Something corrupting the forest outside the town, halting trade routes.

Arkos: so no open travel feel?  I think there should be a few of those. Like I would like to travel through the jungles of Xae over the mountains experiencing adventures along the way

Neikun: Well there would be in a sense, but it would be hard to keep the player's attention if we opened it up like skyrim or the like. 
Now for places that lend themselves to sparseness, there is room to make long travel. Example, walking long bearingless desert
But like I said, all that would be best suited for being incorporated into the level it's designed for.
Part of this is to not bore players who will backtrack.

Arkos: do you think with that long walk in the desert my travel_lvl with Mahrics teleporters could work?

 Neikun: Absolutely it would work, but let me suggest an alternative way about it.
Instead of lanes, do boxes. Perhaps 4x4 or 5x5 boxes. Each outermost square would be a teleporter. This should give the player a less "boxed in" feeling. With this solution the player can natively move in all directions. I don't want to limit the idea of travel, but when I think of the movement mechanic in game, it just does not seem right to put it in an area as open as, say skyrim.
So one kind of compromise is to have as I said, the town, leave the town enter the forest. 
The forest has some winding pathway exits (teleporters), some kinda little slope exit (Beach/hill exit) Or perhaps a little rockiness exit (Mountain side wallset exit/ dungeon exit)
It is also concieveable to do a ladder entrance. The eye of the beholder guys released a ladder to the public.