Using the Great Library of Nothampton as a sort of hub. The player would return there often.


The way I imagine the Great Library, is huge, multiple architecture types throughout it. Full of ancient texts and artifacts.
A main lobby that is huge and full of things for public display. 
Then there would be many rooms that scholars use for private study, as well as larger rooms for studying relics. 
 And in these halls is the section to the basement that Zhandul sealed off when he was studying there.

It's a good way to work in a global story theme

So what I was thinking, we establish early on that Zhandul once studied at the university, and when he went Mad and left, he sealed the basements of the library with strong magics. So the player, ends up going through some dungeons in the nearby places at first that show that Zhandul was there once, looking for something or other. Little by little, the player learns about Zhandul, and unlocks the basement where they find out what Zhandul was doing before he went made.
We should make part of the Library look like it was destroyed

<We need a unique way to get through Zhandul's barrier>
Well the idea I had was, you've collected pieces of relic, or password or something that when brought to the seal, it goes away.

We could work it in such a way, that the final seal breaker is Zhandul's orb, which you would then have to win from Sancsaron..

my vision of the base paty leaves Yennica and Sancsaron alive.

Sancsaron would probably send you to the mage academy in Des to learn about Zhandul, meanwhile, you'd go there, learn that Sancsaron was obsessed with Zhandul and his mythed magical orb, and that it was his life's goal to possess it. Party goes back to find Sancsaron, but he has fled.

Time Line Style Break Down:
Party discovers Zhandul's Barrier in the Library. ->
Party Learns about Zhandul's occupation of the Library and how he cause great destruction and death in Nothampton, stole and airship from the King's docks and was never seen from again. ->
Party explores dungeons around Nothampton and learns that Zhandul was once looking for something in one of them. -> Party finds something in that dungeon that sends them somewhere across the realms. ->
Party learns more about Zhandul and what he was doing, goes back to the Library to find someone to tell. ->
Librarian gives them a hint as to where to look next. ->
Repeat for awhile, learn that some relics found in these dungeons break the seals Zhandul put up. ->
Discover that Zhandul's Orb is required to break the last one ->
Some how get put on the path to Sancsaron. ->
Sancsaron misleads you to Des and flees. ->
In Des you learn that Sancsaron was obsessed with the lore of Zhandul, was dedicated to finding the orb, and was rather violent in school. -was expelled-. ->
Go back to Sancsaron, find out he ran away. Have to track him down. (Possibly take on Yennica as a temp character) ->
Show down with Sancsaron, win the orb, unlock the last seal. -> TO BE CONTINUED...



Touching back on what I just said about airships:
My idea is that Zhandul learned something small about Grimrock, the Goromorgs and the Cube while deeeep deep in the library. And either he snapped, or the cube (Or another cube nearby -he is deeeep underground afterall-) got into his head and drove him mad enough to travel to Grimrock.