Suggestion: Goromorgs and Cubes

Both Goromorgs and Cubes are vying for control of the world, a battle they may have been fighting on other worlds before. 

Cubes consist of metal, which doesn't simply grow, so to heal and replicate they need immense resources. Over time, they have been draining many a world, leaving when the extraction of further resources would require too much effort. Obviously, this practice has left only devastated, lifeless wastelands and uncounted extincted populations.

Goromorgs, on the other hand, harvest people's souls, so they need a living ecosystem to sustain them. Because of this, their plans clash with those of the cubes.

Neither Cubes nor Goromorgs can attack the world with full strength unless they have managed to open a planar portal large enough for their transfers. Thus, as of yet they are fighting an invisible war. The Goromorgs imprisoned a Cube in Grimrock because they wanted to analyze the species, possibly learning of a weakness they could use. As they were slowly disassembling the Cube, the Cemetery was created.

Naturally, they tried everything to stop the party who apparently wanted to release the Cube. Just as understandably, they had no desire to explain their motives... but for the case that the Cube would come free in whatever way, the Master Goromorgs had created a secure vault for the weapon to destroy it.

Only a very secretive order composed of all mankinds knows about this background. They are fighting Goromorgs and Cubes at once, with their only option often being to play them against each other. They cannot just make this secret war public, as both Goromorgs and Cubes have already been corrupting/enchanting/bribing powerful rulers, swaying them to their cause – but nobody knows whom exactly. Thus, everyone telling this unbelievable story would risk being called a lunatic, heretic or whatever and being thrown into a prison. 

Then again, maybe a king under the influence of the Cubes might have already been discovering a secret sanctuary of the Goromorgs and using it as a "prison", throwing only the hardiest convicts inside who might actually have a chance to free one of his secret masters – even if unwillingly...
