Juho Salila: Toorum is a mysterious character of unknown origin. He's well educated and he has roamed all the lands in Northern realms and beyond.

Neikun: Ooh. I like the sound of that.  Would he be considered somewhat famous? Some people in every major city might have met him?

Juho Salila:You mean like Gandalf? I've always thought of Toorum to be like an anonymous backpacker. Actually Neil deGrasse Tyson gave great influence to us when creating Toorum.

Neikun: Yeah but picture this for a moment and tell me if it's plausible
He traveled from town to town, city to city. And at times would stay at a local family/person's house for maybe a three day stay while he restocked his travelling supplies. 
And then he'd leave, never coming back. But the people he stayed with might recall a man with an accent they couldn't quite place, who told fantastic stories of places and things
Never coming back/never heard from or of him again.

Juho Salila: Sure, sounds fine. One thing I could suggest is to expand the lore to you liking. I don't think you have to include every character mentioned in the original game.

Neikun: True enough. I don't really see these ideas I'm having as being an object of the mod. Like Chasing down Toorum relics, but more placed something like Easter Egg fashion.
Part of what makes Toorum so special to the lore is that he is the most fleshed out character, yet very shrouded in mystery.
He may have accidentally left behind a treasure/relic from his travels. Or left quite the memory on a young person who is now an adult.
The characters in the this mod wouldn't have known about him or met him, but the player knows who he is, so when little "Toorum Tidbits" crop up in the lore 
It will feel mildly rewarding to the player.
ex. A dusty ledger. The word "Toorum" is inscribed on the inside cover.
A part of the mod where the player will grin and say "Toorum was here! haha"
It is something to discuss with the rest of the group for sure, but first I had to make sure it was plausible.

Juho Salila: I'm not saying you shouldn't use them. By all means you can use them if it makes the mod better. I just wanted to remind you that it's an open world full of undiscovered characters and places.

Neikun: Yes absolutely. In fact the starting area for the mod will be a little hamlet between Jonli and Malan (Tera I think) that I have yet to name. 
I just like to establish a lot of reference material so that things that already exist fit seemlessly with whatever we create.
For instance, the likelyhood that the players will meet the King of Emperor are low, but they'll crop up in character dialogs or something.