
The Runestone of Olav Wurm.

In a small, almost meaningless hamlet along the northern trading route, stands a peculiar runestone. Erected by Olav Wurm, an unknown norse engraver, it is covered in cryptic runes no scholar has yet been able to decipher. The runes themselves twirl around the surface of the stone in the form of a great snake.

There are, however, those who suspect that a key exists to the riddle, and even that it is not too far from where the stone itself stands.
Those frail and undextrous bodies are in need of an agent to bring about their plans.


Travelers through the hamlet are many, and the moment draws nigh... A versatile group of champions is retiring for the night when they are approached by a mysterious stranger, clad in strange, yet uninteresting clothes, bearing the face of a well-preserved yet old man, whose eyes glint with intelligent, with just a hint of malevolence.

He tosses a coin purse onto the table in front of the champions, without even glancing at them.

"That is not all I have, I'll have you know" He exclaims.
The party's interest is roused, and the resident roque deftly pockets the bag of money, but they remain otherwise silent, as if expecting an explanation. The man frowns.

"The self-proclaimed baron of these parts has outlived his pitiful usefulness, but I can see you are no assassins, and such is not required of you. All I need is an ancient tablet from him. An ancient engraving the runes of which bear no apparent meaning -- not even to your bush-mage".  The resident enchanter of the party almost exclaims at this, but is stopped short by the ragged warrior bearing a worn longsword.

The man pauses and gestures for a glass of wine, which is hastily brought to him in a finely crafted glass -- much more delicate than those used by the peasants eating noisily in the table nearby. He doesn't even look at the bartender, who gives the champions a wary glance and trundles off into the kitchen.

"Thrice what you received and further opportunities assured" The stranger suddenly says, as if coming to some unseen conclusion about the party, who warily sip at their beers. The roque just manages to subdue a gasp about to escape his lips, for he has professionally counted the contents of the bag. The stranger empties his glass in expectant silence.
He looks at the party for the first time, and they realize he is much older than he first appeared. Old and worn. And dangerous, much like the vipers that inhabit the woods.
 
...But gold and work are not always easy to come by. Who knows, perhaps there is such a thing as an easy job?

"Meet me at the runestone when you have it"

And then he was gone. Breathing in the tavern suddenly becomes easier.


QUEST: 
Fetch an ancient stone tablet from the chateau of a decadent baron. Nice, classic and apparently easy. What could go wrong?

Location: "The Hamlet (start)", Baron's Villa (smallish dungeon).

Result: The tablet is returned, and it turns out the runestone reveals the location of an ancient artefact, ceremonial dagger known as the Tail of the World Serpent. It is hidden in an ancient temple across the *Bifros valley high in the mountains surrounding Icefall Bay, a temple abandoned when it was defiled by a group of necromancers 500 years ago.

The mysterious man has another proposition to you...



*(Bifrost is the Rainbow-bridge to Valhalla in norse mythology, the name stems from that)

Notes:
-I'm not entirely happy about the fetching nature of the quest, but I didn't get a better idea at the moment. I might rewrite it -- it is also open to suggestions and changes, so go ahead if you have an idea.