This story continue from Kuningas questline (placed in his folder) 

Let me continue with the story. First here are some facts based on my locations work first (if interested see my Xaee descriptions)
Ancient mountain is actually somewhere in Xaee (close to the Serpent River). Clan of Snake need mysterious artifacts,
so evil Snake God could enter this world much more early. Party does not know this yet. If the storyline below is too
short for you, there should be more artifact so it is not necessary to continue directly to point 1), but party should
 first go north (or any direction) for some more artifacts.

1) get to Nothampton - last "civilisation" before Jungle of Xae. Party should go there trough plains (outside
location) - there should be some side quest or event which will party lead to Bacodar forest and some dungeon as well.

They will arrive to Nohampton just while bad things happened. Prince Theron I. was kidnapped. Nothampton is quite large city (part of
it is harbor, part is normal stone city). Some side quests should be available as well. Party could get some clues about where 
Prince is kindapped and hold. The same organization as for the stolen artifact is responsible for that. So finding prince is the only
way ahead. Clues lead to dungeons below the city (should be some sunken temple, sewers or whatever)
They will find prince at the end (final boss is employer, but artifact is missing, he already sent it to Xae) And also is too late
for prince - he is dying. But beofore dead he tell party about clan of Jaguar and Snake. They need get to Jaguar camp asap.
He ask party for help as they are the only one who knows now what is going on in normal world.

Party goes trough Xae (Jungle wallset required) to the Jaguar Clan. Meeting with Young Jaguar there. He needs some clans to be
reunited before starting war with temple of snake. Party should visit some other clans and persuade its leaders to join Jaguar.
Clans are quite religious, many different quest should be there (get some artifact, kill some beasts etc...)  
When ready they will attack Snake Temple. Party should have some artifact which enable them to enter deeper in the Temple and fight
witch Magda, and Zael at the end.


