Diarmuid has developed a working method for exporting and importing parties, including inventory and states of dungeon mechanics and the party. Collaboration with Centauri Soldier is in works to merge it with existing framework.

Developed monsters that won't attack. (made an ogre and a warden with no weapon as well)
Achieved predefined paths with npcs.

Proposed concept of Nex is on our repository in the Area concepts/Isle of Nex folder

Request for your thoughts on the world's religion. We have established it's monotheistic and that's about it.
We would like to know how many Gods there are, and if they are themed like in D&D (By human traits. ex: Compassion and Honesty)

Town tileset was largely expanded and converted to source files for level designers to take a crack at it.

There was a mention of possibly in an ancient passage in the Great library, there is a broken gateway to Tetharion.

Msyblade developed a fetch quest that is in a testing stage.

Due to the the ability of multiple mods making up the world where one party can travel through the whole world, and conquer every dungeon, we have drafted up a naming format that keeps true to the title of the project. Legends (emphasis on plural) of the Northern Realms.
I imagine our mod names to be like LotNR 3 The Winter Witch's Curse (Endless Tundra Area)

A lot of talk happened about how we're going to keep mods from crashing due to importing. Boiled down to, anything the character can pick up will have to be recognised by the script making import/export possible.

Played around with the concept of the solution to one dungeon is in another dungeon. (Check Diarmuid's IO Test .dats to see)

Players without LotNR data in their save file will import normally to allow play of the mods as standalone.

Funny thought on Juho:
"msyblade: Knowing he has skype at the office, and not at home, makes me wonder if he was assigned to this task, rather than just curious which is even more cool because that means the team thought this project was
A: attention worthy, and 
B: has a good chance of being completed, and 
C: Benefits the Community and genre, Thus AH in tier current model"

We talked about how once our framework is up and running, our large team will help allow us to work on more than one mod at a time, if groups of level designers work on sections of the map. Also discussed global resource folders for assets that might be used in more than one mod, but not all mods.

Asteroth made progress on his skulls assets, including an altar set with skulls, ceiling hanging bone danglers, and shelves full of skulls and bones.

Discussed randomized shop inventories. Discussed ability to steal and consequences. Discussed town guards and confrontation with them if you broke the law.

Talked about ability  to animate anything. Joked: "Is Petri drunk yet" lol

Discussed methods to make existing assets look more human. Not a lot of progress there lol.

Info on cutting down the number of characters that will be added to a character name:
"Centauri Soldier: Oohh! What if you assign a unique identifier code to each object? If every dungeon has the framework, then the import funciton could use an 8 charater identfier for each onject instead of 300...
You could say tObject[a3c8ef30] is a Long Sword of Sharpness. No need for sword data, just the id."

Discussed existing races:
"Humans everwhere, minotaurs in both north and south, lizard folk to the subtropical/tropical areas, insectoids are nomadic and rarely live in cities"

Discovered the Ogre's two unused attack animations. Brainstormed about how to turn the hammer into a wand.