Isle of Nex
Quite independant island. Very very old. Rumors are about some ancient civilization living here long time ago. Nowadays "Nexans" wants to believe
they are their ancestors.

Except cities and Temples, Island is quite wild places, full of wild animals, forest, rivers and light jungle. Altough there are accidents, 
animals usually do not attack local people and we could say everyone is living with each other in some kind of harmony.
Land is full of ancients temples and ruins.


Main city Ilore

City means huge temple in which is living several hundreds people. But because one temple is not enough, people started building around. "Nexans" are 
proud nation. Mainly humans. They do not like minotaurs too much, altough there are some exceptions, cause minotaurs are sometimes skilled Crafters, altough 
minotaurs usually do not born here.


Nexans are mainly religious order worshiping Nex (and Ilore)

There are two main "gods" worshiped - Nex and his bride Ilore
While Nex (if ever existed) is responsible for more material things and staff, Ilore is mainly goddes of magic / healing. Ilore is not so known in other
countries, main reason is perhaps beacuse of island큦 name.
Nex is not a "good" god in it큦 way, like more neutral. He is focused more on disciple, proud, honest, truth, while Ilore stays behind with magic. You can
call that good if you want.


Some of Nexans are born with divine abilites (magic). Such childs are entering Temple services as apprentices, where learning different staff (
basicaly it큦 education where children are learning everything, including some basic magic, work with materials, writing, etc...)
In age of 15 every child could decide to become a Crafter, or a Cleric. Never both.
Crafters are more likely soldiers, which use magic mainly for making weapons and they traing themself in soldier큦 way.
Clerics are more like mages, which use magic in common way, mainly for healing or helping Crafters to create some magnificient artifact.

Deep under Temple are huge halls, where Crafters are smithing magic artifacts. Usually weapons, which will - according to legends -help them
defeat ancient evil.
Sometimes some artifact gets out of the Island. These artifacts are highly valued by thiefs and traders.


High council - 
is made of 3 most experienced Crafters, 3 Clerics and one neutral, which decide in case score is 3:3. Council is voting about any serious staff.
