Xaee-
wild jungle and mountain country often refered as Xae.
Xaeens are known for theirs wild and ritualistic nature. There is nor capital nor oficial city. In wild 
mountains which are often crossable just over air bridges are placed mystery temples, where Xaeens are living.
People are divided in "clans", depending which god their worship.
Xaens are mainly wild nature people. 


Religy

Serpent and Jaguar god 
Xaeens worship many animal gods living in the jungle. Almost each animal has it큦 clan and temple.
As stronmgest animal is honored jaguar, which has also many followers - unofficial Clan of Jaguar. It has one
of the most magnificient Temples (and not just one) situated in mountains.
Among all worshipped gods, only one is truly feared - Snake. It큦 Temple is located near Serpent river.
Ancient prophecy is told about this God, he is ofter refered as the most cruel evil which will destroy all, 
but not true worshippers. Because of some signs showed up recently (hundreds of snakes in Serpent river etc...)
, Xaeens believe, the Snake will enter mortal world soon. This leads to great discussion with no good end.
Some Xaeens are preparing to welcome Mr. Snake into this world when he comes, and other group,
 which is trying to avoid this and fight. For hundreds years clans lived in peace, but now brutal religious
fights started between temples and clans. Other minority clans started to join even Jaguar, or snake.
It is only question of time, when this fight will cross border of jungle.

Clans
Each clan has one Eldest - this is usualy wise and experienced shamman, which see hidden truth about the world
Any Xaeen should become warrior if he fulfill his warrior quest. This is given by Eldest from his dreams and 
visions. Usually to kill some strong animal etc...
There is also one "witch" in each clan - woman which has true healing / magical abilities. Her world is
very strong among the clan.
Smallest clan of Fish hs just 30 members and small village near Serpent river.
Biggest is Clan of Jaguar and Snake.

Clan of the Jaguar
Eldest Jor큝i was murdered few weeks ago. Warriors found his body inside his tent. No blood at all. His
 skin was almost green - snake poison.
Now Eldest becomes his only son - Young Jaguar. But he is very young (about 20 years) and in his body is lots
of hot blood. He is kind a convincing person, fighting now for his father큦 dead. He is gathering as many
other clans as he can to go in war with clna of Serpent.
Witch Debra is just regular, nothing special about her. Oh, she is in secret love with Young Jaguar. 


Clan of Serpent
Hidden in jungle, almost on Serpent river. Servants of this clan becomes true servants of Snake god. No
other clan, human or animal could survive Serpent큦 God return. They are cruel, cunning and evil. They know 
what need to be done. Starting with Jor큝is murder, their eyes are now watching Nothampton and prince Theron...
Head of Serpent clan is Zael - cruel and smart mage, experienced summoner and dark magic appprentice.
He also knows alchemy (especialy poisons) very well.
If Zael knows poison well, his personal witch Magda is poison Master. She is evil whisperer, hating 
clan of Jaguar the most. It was mainly her work to get Jor큝i killed. Now she wants lure Young Jaguar in
deadly trap. But Zael has different plans for now.