	Nothampton is the center of the Theraenian Kingdom. Here you can find all manners of wonderous landmarks. Such as, Great Castle Dugnar, home to King Konrak II the Wise and the Dugnar royal line. 

The castle was built on top of a crumbling ruin of House Abbrarch when it's rule fell apart, though that was long ago, and only great sages and tomes from the Great Library still know of that history. Many underground passages still remain under Castle Dugnar, some of which have been converted into dungeons and some of which that have not yet been discovered. 

	Another key landmark to the city is the Great Library. Throughout the Northern Realms, there are several libraries, but only one is ever referred to as The Great Library. It's size and mass of ancient texts surpasses every other library on the continent.
Originally constructed before House Abbrarch's rule, The Great Library was originally quite a small building, but over the course of many centuries, every royal family to have ever ruled the Kingdom of Theraen has added something to it. 
There are many many unexplored passages and texts. 
Whole sections of the library have been inaccessible ever since Zhandul the Mad occupied it's halls. He used his magic to seal some sections shut. At a time when he was respected, he assured everyone that he was just projecting his work from prying eyes.  Notably, since Zhandul's occupation, the entire subfloors have been inaccessible, including the record room detailing how many floors below the library exist, or their contents. Some rumours suggest that there is a magical artifact down there that caused Zhandul to go mad. Others suggest he was corrupted by his own talent. Some people seem to think he was insane from the start, but was friendly to people only to achieve his goals.

	Aside from carrying thousands of texts on thousands of subjects, The Great Library also acts as a museum of natural and magical artifacts. Relics from forgotten ages can be found in its halls. Most magical objects are kept in private study until it is their day to be showcased. Aside from the magical, you will also be able to find great pieces of ancient art and scupture, as well as weapons and armor famous in the Theraenian Kingdom. For instance, the split helmet of King Konrak I the Valiant has recently been donated to the Great Library by his majesty's son, our new King. The Great Library is also currently the housing of the Kingdom's largest Mystic Crystal. It is kept in private study most of the time, while scholars and sages attempt to unlock it's properties. It is a big draw for tourists, however, and is wheeled out for spectators to look upon once a week.

