THIS IS SLIGHTLY INCOMPLETE / POSSIBLY SUBJECT TO MAJOR CHANGE, critique and suggestions welcome


Sanchi, "The Last Refuge"

An excerpt from "My travels across the Northern Realms"
by Arkram Mester, philosopher for the Royal Library of Theraen


Over the course of a few months I made my way across the Walled Road through the Xafi Desert after leaving the colours of Vaaey in favor of the stinging yellow of the dunes. I was making my way to Sanchi, as many had over the years, some fleeing, some with holy thoughts, some with intelligence and knowledge of magicks uncompared. I rode with curiosity in my heart. Sanchi would be the turning point of my grand journey across the Northern Realms -- after that city, I would cross the Serpent Sea and hopefully make my way through the jungle.

Sanchi is an ancient city. It is formed around an ancient monastery that sits on a nearby mountain cliff -- a set of caves, originally, dug by ascetic followers of a mysterious god "Des" at least a thousand years ago. It is said that when the monks were looking for a safe haven from religious persecution, they almost succumbed to the desert until their leader, at the sight of the salty ocean, turned back and collapsed of exhaustion in the base of the mountain, striking it with his staff. With a crack of thunder, a stream of water erupted from the spot his staff had struck, and the monks survived. They took it as a sign and made their sanctuary there, on that mountain.

That fountain still exists and provides water for the surrounding town, though the monks are long gone. The stream formed of it reaches the sea a few miles away, where there is a small fishing hamlet and the mages academy grounds. Amazingly, the whole stream is covered by a peculiar stone structure, to protect it from the sun's dissipating rays, making it more reminiscent of an aqueduct than a true river. I later heard it was built by the mages so they could ensure fresh water for the academy. Allegedly, the aqueduct is home to a small population of ratmen, so I hope the mages academy has means of ensuring their water is truly fresh.

On the mountain (and partially within) stands the old monastery of Des, the forgotten god, a great amber-colored building of angular stone, formed on two levels like a pyramid of sorts. I had to admire the effort that the construction must have taken. Nowadays, the eccentric minotaur king Anghmar lives in the monastery building, having little interaction with the townspeople. In the olden days they used to pay the king tribute, but after the magi made their academy in a nearby valley, the old king was forced to give up real power over the township. No-one really knows what is going on in there, only rarely minotaur servants appear in town gathering supplies.

The city surrounding the cliff appeared to me like a collection of bleached cubes scattered around the mountain and on top of each other. Here and there a palm tree had sprung, but not much plant life was apparent. Later I found many hidden, shaded gardens between the buildings.

The township had formed at a time of war many, many centuries ago, when refugees had fled for the distant monastery to avoid persecution, just like the monks had done before them, and the minotaur exile at some point as well. In the beginning it must have been tough, but through feats of irrigation and hardiness, a village formed around the mountain with the monastery. Later that village grew into  the town it is now, ancient but not forgotten.

Nearing the buildings, I noticed on the cliffside the famous 36 steps of virtue -- a set very steep, meter-high steps carved into the mountainside. In the time of the monks of Des, it used to be a test of purity and the only way up and down the mountain. The monks must have made it daily to and from the fountain near the bottom of the stairs.

Through the main street of the town I arrived at that famed fountain. Crystal water flowed from within the rock, as clear as a thousand years ago, they say. It was just a small stream, yet it nourished the whole city. I experienced a strange feeling of respect toward the water as I sated my thirst at the source, like pilgrims of old used to do.

I then sought acommodation, and found myself upon the town's Inn, a cozy place owned by a Malanian named Pierro. I hadn't even paid for my room when I was approached by a man in worn brown robes, inviting me to stay at the mages academy of Des (they took the name of the old monastery when the academy was built) instead. I excused myself to Pierro, with whom I chatted at length later, and whom I found a terrific fellow.

The mages academy is located along the shoreline, a couple of miles from the town of Sanchi. It is accompanied by an unnamed fishing hamlet of a few households. The walled academy, a small town in itself, also has a small dock. I was hoping I could arrange a boat over the Sea of Serpents from here later on.

