
SERPENT CULTS OF THE NORTHERN REALMS

by Arkram Mester, Philosopher
for the Royal Library of Theraen
year.xxxxx


Serpent -- Immortal destroyer

On my wide travels I have spied on many a strange ritual, and scarce are they stranger than the rites that honor --or ward off-- the serpent, most devious of nature's inhabitants. After seeing the temple of the snake-god in the jungles of Xaae, and observing grim Northerners curse the world eating worm Midgormun, I became interested in the myths surrounding this creature in the cultures surrounding us.
What I found out is covered in this treatise. I will be moving from north to south.


Midgormun, the eater of the world

When I was around the great Fjords , I saw very few pictures of snakes (save dragons, but the myth is unrelated in their culture) anywhere. Only the time when we were in a narrow fjord fighting a malicious wind that took one of the boats I heard the men utter the name of Midgormun as a curse as they watched their comrades disappear in the rocky waves. I later asked them who was Midgormun, to hear he was the the poisonous snake-god that resides in the deepest parts of the ocean, causing storms and eating ships. He was also blamed for siring the land-dwelling vipers, the only snake species found in that northern land. It is also the most poisonous of all the animals that live in those conditions, which explains it's hated status.

I said I did not see any art depicting this god, but they said some of the witches and warlocks think the great worm will gift it's followers with immortality when it eats the world like it was phropecied to.
There was also once a great king in the north, who is now only known as the Great Northern Serpent -- I was unable to find much information on this mysterious character, save that he was buried in a secret place with the cursed crown he bore on his forehead. The men who buried him jumped from the cliffs to Midgormun's deep realm to keep the secret safe forever.

It is said the settlement of Ormun is named after the snakes that are abundant in it's rocky landscapes, but I have not visited that place. I heard the locals ward off snakes with queer practices, I must travel there one day.

Souther, near Kalevala, people don't seem to have an established snake cult, owing to their belief that the snake is the most deceitful of all animals, and thus can never be trusted with sacrifices or worship.  It is said that local sorcerers once enchanted snakes into their fences for protection from outsiders, and wield magical snake-shaped staffs that could inflict terrible illnesses on their foes. Their interesting Farnorth-myth also says that great snakes live there. One of the great heroic deeds depicted in their epics is to plow a field infested with poisonous snakes. The land-dwelling viper is the only worm to inhabit these lands as well.

I also heard a story in a small village about snakes living in whirlpools that form into streams -- an interesting notion no doubt connected to the Midgormun myth.

Kuningas notes: Midgormund is ever so slightly based on Jormungandir of the Norse Mythology, but I tried to keep it to the minimum. The Kalevalan part is based on Finnish Mythology -- much less subtle but just as delicious.



The Knowing Serpent of the Malanian Empire

The Malanian folklore bears some similarities to that of the northerners, but with key differences. Here, the snake seems to enjoy a much less malevolent name, rather being honored as a very knowledgeable creature, and a patron of herbs, remedies and health. They also harbor the old belief that the serpent guards the secret of immortality, since it can shed it's old self and continue living anew.

Then again, in some areas, in addition to patron the art of healing, the snake is known as the bringer of disease and death as well. No actual cult is formed around either belief, though.

The snake is much more revered as the holder of knowledge, which is imminent in the runic tradition of the empire -- indeed the message in most runestones is written on the shape of a serpent, coiling around the surface of the rock. It is said that the deity of knowledge , wisdom and healing [INSERT NAME HERE] also carried a venomous snake as his staff, and whomever that snake bit would either fall dead to the ground or be cured of all his illnesses.

This bears obvious relation to the snake-wielding sorcerers of Kalevalan tradition.

These days, there have been news of a secret society that uses the snake motif in their insignia -- their beliefs are not known to me however, considering Malanian culture they can very well be either benevolent or ill-intending. Some houses bear this mark in the Malanian cities, leading to believe that such houses act as the meeting places of that secretive folk. An old philosopher like me wouldn't dream to go investingating, though.

Serpents and dragons are also often used as symbols by families of Malanian nobility.



The Dragon, The Snake, The Basilisk, Theraenian serpents

In Theraen, unlike the northern cultures, the serpent and the dragon are viewed as close relatives. This is probably because both enjoy a mundane existence in addition to a mythological presence.

In Theraenian culture, a dragon has always symbolized an obstacle. Indeed still, if a warrior were to kill a dragon, it would be a feat extraordinary, proving that knight's provess without question. The dragon is also viewed as the Grand Serpent, a king of all the serpentine creatures. Dragons (those that exist or are merely believed to exist) are a common object of worship and sacrifice, even though they are most often viewed as a malign entity. Many caves in the countryside have been called dragondens, and been avoided by the folk for centuries -- although the danger is often far lesser than a dragon, or indeed nonexistent. It is believed that sacrifices to dragons do help in cutting the losses -- at least until a slayer can be arranged. There are also families who wear the dragon as their emblem in one form or another similarly to Malanian families.

The basilisk is a vile beast that seems to mock both dragons and lesser serpents. Indeed, they are a dangerous foe even to a well-armed group of fighters, and often kill without inflicting visible wounds. Some study has gone into these creatures by philosophers -- often resulting in a dead scientist. Rumor also has it that some rogue wizards have tamed or at least captured basilisks and use them as guardians in their homes. I certainly wouldn't -- one is as sure to kill the master as it is an intruder.

The serpent, appearing in many forms in the area of Theraen, is most often viewed as an ill omen, symbolizing death and disease. Indeed many of the species are venomous and even when they are not, they may carry afflicitons they bestow upon their victims who may escape otherwise unharmed.

In the southern parts of the country, snakes seem to get more poisonous and more typical, and thus tend to become more popular in myths and tales as well.

Non-venomous snakes tend to be bigger, and hunt by strangling or constricting their prey. These snakes, perhaps surprisingly, take a far greater role in the religion and mythology of the area, often appearing as wrestling opponents of gods and heroes.

It is said that giant serpents exist in the swamplands and jungles, snakes so big they can eat a warrior whole, armor and clothes included.
Recently, there have been many reports of snakes seen biting their own tail -- certainly an omen, but of unknown nature. This peculiar behavior has been adapted as a symbol of certain obscure cults residing in the underbelly of Theraeni population. I personally witnessed a strange, unkempt man walking the streets of a small town in the south, wearing such a snake on his neck like some kind of an amulet. I shivered looking at his wild eyes, and gave him way just as the other townspeople did.



The Island of Nex -- the island without snakes

Nex is a peculiar place -- it is completely devoid of snakes. According to legend, when it was separated from the mainland ages ago, there was a great purge in which every snake on the island was slain and thrown into the sea -- save one. The reasons are unknown, but apparently the snake was -- curiously similarly to norhern tradition -- seen as the bringer of a great catasthrophe that could end the world. Perhaps the ancient Nexans reasoned that the cataclysm that sunk most of the cape was an omen of that coming catastrophe, and they sought to avoid it by ridding themselves of it's bringers.
The one snake that avoided this is the holy white snake that resides under the temple of [insert chief deity here], and is revered as a great oracle by the people of Nex. It is said to be incredibly old and wise. According to some historians, it was this snake that advocated the extermination of it's brethren from the island, but I have yet to see any proof of that.

---NOTE: I kind of lost wind at this chapter -- I'm not really happy with it at all, it probably needs a radical rewrite.



The Tribe of the Serpent and the Plumed Wyrm

South of Theraen begin the vast jungles. There are more snakes there than the rest of the Realms combined -- probably, no-one's ever tried counting them. They also hold a more prestigious but feared status among the local tribes. As you know, the tribes of the people of Xaae are named after the animals that inhabit that wood. Thus, there is also a powerful but furtive clan known as the Tribe of the Serpent. I have seen them, although only from afar. I was travelling to a temple with some scouts from the mighty Jaguar clan, when we spotted a strange group of people. At first I thought they were some kind of monsters, but upon inspection, I noticed they were tribesmen carrying vast numbers of snakes on their back. No doubt it was of ritual importance to them -- I cannot imagine a rational reason for doing that. Even then, it demands some faith, some of the worms were of the most poisonous kind. My allies grew uneasy at the sight. They told me the Serpent Tribe was an evil people, that they did unimaginable rites in their hidden temple far away near the Serpent River.

When I arrived in the temple, I asked the resident priest about the strange and worrisome sight. He told me that it was probably either a penitentiary ritual, or some sort of sacrificial carriage. He said such sights has become more and more commonplace -- indeed a messenger of the Fish Tribe had come several moons ago, telling ill news of thousands of snakes filling the Serpent River, with the Serpent clansmen swimming around with them. The messenger told that after that, they were unable to catch any fish from the river, as if it had become poisonous.
He told there was talk of sending aid to the struggling clan, but it never got farther than the planning stage. No word has been heard from Fish Tribe for many moons now.

He also told me a curious tale from their ancestry.
Apparently, once all the tribes followed a god called the Plumed Wyrm, a great snake who bore colorful feathers like those of an eagle. It had come from the east a long time ago, lived to be old in his temple, that apparently now served the Serpent Tribe, and left for the Sea of Serpents to die. Before his death, he stated he would return when he caught his tail on the other side of the world and became almighty. The Wyrm was not an evil god, but he was an oppressive one, demanding sacrifices and total servitude from his followers. Only the Serpent Tribe truly wishes for his return -- many believe that returning, the Wyrm would bring about the end of the world. Interestingly, the mountainborn Condor Tribe believes that the Plumed Wyrm was in reality, a massive condor that did not have any feathers on it's head and thus ended up looking like a snake to the people. Indeed, the great condors are known as hunters of snakes, and are constantly fighting with the Serpent Clan.