

The Southern Highway

An excerpt from "My travels across the Northern Realms"

by Arkram Mester,
philosopher for the Royal Library of Theraen


"Since times immemorial, the kings and emperors of the Northern Realms have done trade with the southeastern peoples of the Xafi desert, who in turn trade with the Eastern peoples.

The southern highway is thus much older than the kingdom of Theraen that now controls it all the way from Nothampton to the infamous Toll Islands. In fact, Cape Reach, through which the road runs, is named after the fact that it can be used to reach the eastern lands more safely than by traversing the deadly jungles of Xaae. I can attest to that, but that tale is for another time.

The highway itself runs across the more ragged side of the cape. Ancestral ruins are scattered across the coastline, sometimes torn in half as if the whole coastline collapsed ages ago. The architecture of these castles is archaic and unlike most found elsewhere in the world.

Only a few settlements dot the border of the jungle, but the road itself is widely traversed and well kept. Signal fires are kept in key points along the cliffside as signals for the ships passing south along the dangerous but fast sea route to Toll Islands.

There are rumors of a hidden pirate city in a large cavern in the cliffside, but the rocks make it almost impossible to sail there. An ideal hiding place such a cave-city would be. There are also rumors about stowaways sneaking their way into merchant and travelling ships along the coast somehow, perhaps these are somehow connected.

The cliffs become scalable near the tip of the cape, and even a few farms find livelihood in the marshy ground. The very tip shows the beginning of the sandy beaches characteristic to the Toll Islands, the ferries and harbors of which mark the end of the highway.

From here, one's road usually takes him to the desert cities, and, on occasion, further east. I travelled all the way to Sanchi once, and made my way back through the jungles..."