
Vaaey, the southern capital

An excerpt from "My travels across the Northern Realms"
by Arkram Mester, philosopher for the Royal Library of Theraen


"After I finally got through the bureucratic mess that is the Toll Islands, I found myself on a short boat-trip to Vaaey, the greatest trading port in the Xafi Desert. Seeing it's white walls gleaming in the sandy shoreline, I considered how the city became what it is.

Before the southern trade began, Vaaey was little more than a village that was situated in one of the less-inhospitable reaches of the desert. After ships from the northern kingdoms started bearing more jubilant merchants than bearded raiders clad in steel, the city started growing exponentially. Indeed, it kept growing until the eastern trading route was finally explored less than a century ago. Vaaey is still the most important trading port of the south, and is likely to remain so, though it has lost some of it's glory to decadence and the challenges that the Toll Islands pose to continued trade.

It has been written, that in it's  heyday, the fountains of the sultan's palace spouted wine, women of every race and culture danced in his courts, and golden smoke covered the streets so that anyone wandering through would exit intoxicated and often fall asleep in a ditch where wily desert bandits would relieve them of their valuables.

Today, the palace is still glorious, but it's fountains are of water and dancers mostly local. I visited the current leader, Sultan Hamid, and stayed in his court for the duration of my visit. He was an amiable leader, and old and intelligent man who had managed the state wisely. Nevertheless, trade was in decline, not in the least because Theraen has laid claim to the Toll Islands and taxes trading ships rigorously where they used to sail right into Vaaey to sell their goods. In direct retaliation, smuggler ports in the western coast around the smaller city of Basabu have started growing despite Theraen's warships patrolling the waves, sinking smugglers and pirates on sight.

The city itself is a glorious sight. White stone buildings, narrow winding streets and colourful cloth assaulted the eye, where multilingual chatter and exotic perfumes permeated the ear and nose. Golden smoke didn't cover the streets, but was still commonplace in the more shadier coffee houses and taverns. That substance is one of the greatest illegal articles smuggled out of Xafi, and I suspect it is one of the reasons for the continued trade here -- it cannot be found anywhere in the east, it's preparation is a close-guarded secret and taking it through the jungle is both dangerous and costly.

However, the city is also dangerous. Returning from the library of the local university, "The hall of the writings of the wise", late one night, I was ambushed by a group of masked thieves brandishing fearsome scimitars. They demanded I give up my purse and jewelry, but I thankfully didn't have anything on me than a few books I had loaned from my colleagues at the university. After a moment of coarse handling and cursing they knocked me down and escaped to the alleys at the sight of a guardsman patrol. I was unfazed -- thieves were among the least of threats I had encountered on the trip, but it goes to show that a lone wanderer in the streets at night can easily lose his belongings if he is not careful. Later on I was swindled by a tradesman, though, so that goes to show not all the robbers work at night. One will also do better if he keeps his purse in his deepest pocket whilst navigating the throngs of the street by day, no-one knows the narrow streets and courts better than those who make their living by hiding there.

Nevertheless, I must add I found the people of the city and the surrounding lands very friendly and honest for the most part, contrary to what one might think based on my slight misadventures. Bartering may take ages, but you can get most things for a rather fair price, much less than they would be after a lengthy sea transport to Nothampton and beyond.

Near the city, on the fertile lands that surround it's immediate vicinity live many wealthy merchants and the area is well-guarded. I was invited to visit merchant called Phlebas after I conversed him during a feast the sultan gave to the upper class, and I don't think I've ver seen as many guards as those patrolling that suburb. I later heard they had caught and executed a robber right then during my visit, so it goes to prove that the money put to the guards was not ill-invested.

After my stay I headed east, over the desert, headed for the smaller, but much, much older Sanchi, town where the mages' academy is situated. I took the famed Walled Road that used to run through all of the desert. It is a marvel of manpower and engineering -- a road cut into the middle of the dunes of the desert, huge stone walls protecting it from the sands, statues of gods and goddesses, emperors and empresses of old lining it for the most part of it. Sadly, much of it has been reclaimed by the desert, and it is not uncommon for bandits to stage ambushes along it's shaded course. The parts that are not so easily traversed crossed by hiring a nomad guide. They tend to live along the road in small communities, sometimes numbering in hundreds and resembling small villages.

After an arduous journey, I found myself in Sanchi..."